In this exercise,
we want to calculate the grade of a student. So here,
are the marks of a student in different subjects,
we pass this array with this function, calculate grade, what
this function does, is first it calculates the average
grade. So what is the average here, 80 plus 80
plus 50, that comes to 210 divided by 3, so
the average is 70. Now here we need
a table to see what grade this average corresponds to.
So if the average comes down to this range 1 to
59, the grade should be f, if it is between 60 and
69, that should be d, if it's between
70 and 79, that should be a c.
If it's between 8- and 89, that should be a b.
And finally if it's between 90 and 100,
that should be an a. So spend 5 to 10 minutes
on this exercise, when you're gone, come back and continue watching.
Alright here first we need to
calculate the average mark. So to calculate the average,
first, we need to declare a variable like some, initialize
it to 0, then we need to use the for of loop to
iterate this array of marks, and calculate the sum of all
these marks. So, for let
mark of marks we get mark and add it to
sum. So sum + = mark.
So this is the total. Now to get the average
we need to divided sum by the number of
marks. That is marks.length. Now
we have the average, we need to use this table to map it to a grade.
So, one way to calculate the grade is like this.
So if average is greater than or equal
to 0, actually here the range should be 0 to 59.
So if average is greater than or equal to 0
and average is less than or equal to
59, we're going to return f
and similarly we can have a few other if statements for
other grades, but this code is a little bit ugly,
there is so much noise in this code. Instead of having two conditions,
along with the logical and. We can simplify
this expression to something like this. If average is less
than 60, because the range for f is
0, to 59, so as long as average is longer than
60 we get the same result. See what I did here? So there are different
solutions to solve a programming problem. And you should aim
for the simplest solution. Because as Leonardo Da Vinci says,
simplicity is the ultimate sophistication. So using this pattern,
I'm going to calculate the other grades.
So, if average is less than
70, return d. Because
if we get to this point, that means average is at least 60 or
higher. Now I'm just checking the upper limit. So the upper
limit should be 69. So if the average is between 60 and
69, we return d, similarly,
if the average is less than 80, we'll return
c, if average is less than 90,
we'll return b, and if we get to this point that means
the average is at least 90 or greater, we don't really need
another if statement here, we can simply return
F. Now we can make this code even better. While this function is fairly
simple, it's only about maybe 10 lines of code,
we can break this function into 2 smaller functions,
each focusing on 1 thing, that is what we call
single responsibility principle. I use a metaphor. Think of a
restaurant. People working in a restaurant have different roles. So the
chef is in the kitchen responsible for cooking. The chef doesn't come out and
take orders, so he or she is responsible for only one thing.
The same goes for the manager. The manager is responsible for only one thing.
Managing the restaurant at a high level. We have the same
concept in programming. So we should have functions that are
small and are focused only one 1 thing. in this function,
we are basically doing 2 different things. The first part of this
function is all about calculating the average of numbers in
an array. And the second part is about mapping the
average to a great. So we can extract these few lines
put them in a separate function like this. So,
function caluclateAverage
we give it an array, this array can be anything, it can
be an array of marks, or it can be an array of temperatures,
anything, we can reuse this function in the future, whenever we need
to calculate the average of a bunch of numbers. Now,
I'm going to get all this code, cut it, put it
here, now here we need to rename a couple of variables, here
we're working with marks but the parameter of this function is called
array, so, put the cursor here, press f2,
and rename these 2 array. Also, we need to
rename our loop variable from mark to variable, so
now we have a generic function, it's not tied to marks, it can be reused
in different situations. And finally
we can return the average here, or we can make this code
even simpler, so instead of storing the average in a
variable and then returning it, we can simply return the result
of this expression, so return, sum divided by
array.length. See? And finally
we can reuse this function here. So we declare a constant
average and set it to calculateAverage
of marks. With this change, now
we have two very simple functions, each function
is responsible only for one thing.